The door to the pod hissed open, and Tre stared at his new classroom,
an uncertain fl icker in his eyes. Children sat clustered around tables
in small groups. In the centre of each lay a pile of building bricks, white
as hospital walls. Tre watched as the students dipped into the piles,
searching for pieces they wanted as the bricks rattled and clattered in
little avalanches. In the corner, at a table with its own white mound,
a girl sat alone. She had dark hair and dark circles under her eyes.

The Examiner, Miss Friend, ushered Tre into the room. His fresh jumpsuit
covered him like a food wrapper, the fabric stiff and uncomfortable. Tre saw
the builders stop and look up, but only for a moment. They were barely
curious about the newcomer.

“This is Tre,” said Miss Friend,
“transferred from Region G. Say hello.”
A few of the children nodded.
The dark-haired girl in the corner briefly
met Tre’s gaze, then dropped her eyes
back to the mound of white.
“Probably his fi rst time in a proper
classroom,” whispered one girl to
another, just loud enough for Tre to hear.
Miss Friend pointed to a spare chair
beside them.
“You’ll make him feel at home, won’t
you, Dove? Zyn?”
Miss Friend smiled encouragingly,
and Tre sat down. “I’ll just check on the
other classes. Back soon.” She left, the
door sliding fi rmly shut behind her.
Aware of Dove’s watchful eyes, Tre
selected a few bricks and cautiously
began piecing them together. The class
chatted, laughing occasionally, ignoring
the drone of the city, stifl ing and grey
outside the thick windows.

“Pace is the fastest,” explained
Dove, indicating a big boy across the
room. She clicked more bricks onto
her construction. “But Luna’s the allrounder.”
She looked admiringly at the
girl with blonde hair who sat beside her.
“She so is,” agreed Zyn.
Tre looked over at Luna. The corners
of the girl’s mouth lifted in an unfriendly
smile.
“What was it like in Region G?” Dove
asked. “Was it awful?”
Tre stiffened. “It was fine,” he said
quietly.
“No offence, but there’s no way I’d
live there,” Luna said.
In his mind, Tre caught a glimpse
of the cabin by the water, of the wind
chimes made from driftwood, the string
gently rattling. Out the back, he saw the
swan plants, a flutter of butterflies.

It was fi ne,” he said again.
“Why are you here if it was so fine?”
asked Zyn.
“You know, I bet his parents were
Hushed,” whispered Dove.
Tre didn’t say anything. He forced a
few more bricks together, holding it in,
but his eyes still misted over.
“I knew it!” she hissed triumphantly.
“Hushed … shame!” said Luna, the
quiet smirk fi nding its way back onto her
face. Her tower was taller than she was.
The girl stood up so she could carry on
building, her hands moving swiftly, her
pony tail gently swaying.
“Luna always builds the best things,”
whispered Zyn, staring with dismay at
her own construction.
“Yes, you mentioned that,” said Tre,
though carefully, so as not to appear
rude. “So when does class start?”

Dove and Zyn looked at each other,
ridicule dancing in their eyes. They both
began to giggle. “This is class, silly,”
Zyn finally managed to say.
“I knew it was his first time,” said Dove.
Tre blushed and stared down at his
hands. “It was different at home,” he
stammered. “We didn’t do this kind of
thing.”
“So backwards,” snorted Luna.
Tre managed another anxious look
around the pod. They were all building
towers. All of them. Tall and white.
There were no shapes, no colours,
nothing remotely original. Each tower
was merely trying to be taller than the
one beside it: a relentless skyline that
went up and up. It was impossible to
tell why Dove admired Luna’s so much.
There was nothing that distinguished it,
nothing at all. Tre felt his fear rising.

Tre looked over at the girl in the corner.
She was staring ahead, blank despair in her
eyes. She hadn’t made a tower. She hadn’t made
anything.
“That’s Muse,” said Dove. “They Hushed her too.”
“Poor Muse,” said Zyn cheerily.
Tre kept looking at Muse. Was that what
happened when you were Hushed – your spark
was wrenched from inside?
He remembered his parents’ faces as the
Voids shoved them onto the transport – the look
in their eyes. It was the last time he’d seen them.
He’d only been allowed one short phone call since,
and something had changed. His parents hadn’t
sounded the same. Tre wiped his eyes with the
back of his hand and carried on building.
After a time, Miss Friend swished back into
the room, tablet in hand. She checked on the
children’s progress, picking her way through the
work stations. Tre hurriedly clicked more bricks
into place.
“Not bad, Pace, still a way to go.”
“Milo. Nice work. Keep it up.”
“That could be sturdier, Star, don’t you think?”
Tre watched as Miss Friend stopped beside
Luna, who now had to stand on tiptoes to add the
fi nishing touches to her construction.
“Oh, my. Now that is the most impressive
building,” Miss Friend said. “Stop and take a look
at Luna’s work please, class.”
“That is just so tall and so straight,” said Zyn.
“Way to go,” said Dove.

The class closed in around Tre like a
net. He stopped building and looked at
what he had done. He had made a boat.
An old-fashioned row boat. Its bow rose
proudly as if it was carving through real
water. “What is that?” Dove asked with a
grimace.
“Doesn’t look anything like a tower,”
said Luna.
“It’s a boat – only it’s not fi nished,”
said Tre. “My dad made one like this,
from real wood too.” Tre’s voice died
away. “But that was before –”
“Well, we don’t make that sort of
thing here,” snapped Miss Friend.
She gestured at the other tables with
a wave of her tablet.
“Crazy,” said Luna, shaking her head.
Miss Friend changed her approach.
She softened her tone and smiled.
“You’re new here, Tre. You weren’t to
know. Break it up and start again.”

Tre began to pull the bricks apart.
Piece by piece, the boat disappeared.
“That’s better,” said Miss Friend.
“We don’t need another Muse.”
“You should have seen the things
she used to make,” said Dove. “She was
totally out there.”
“And now she doesn’t say a word,”
added Zyn.
“Hush, little baby …,” hummed Luna,
and the girls laughed.
Tre couldn’t bear to listen. The fear
came once more, stronger this time.
He got to his feet and went over to Muse.
He was desperate to see a glimmer,
some life in her eyes. Something that
told him he wasn’t alone. But she just
stared ahead.

Then Tre saw it. Spelt out in front
of Muse on the table. A single word:
“Come away from there, Tre,” hissed
Miss Friend.
Luna blushed. “Thanks, guys.” Then the smile
dropped away from her face. She pointed at Tre’s
bricks. “Miss Friend, should he be doing that?”