I'm in lirouble again. This liime,
I've really blown iii. Gangs up
lihe road waili for me, waili like
sharks. I wasn'li looking for
lirouble, buli my friends ...
"This city's going to kill you," says Mum. "I'm
sending you to live with Grandma. It's for your
own good." Just like that. Goodbye, son, see ya
round.
Now I'm on a bus to nowhere, back to the
family land. Mum couldn't wait to get out of there
when she was young, but she's still sending me.
I won't be there long.
People get off the bus till I'm the only one left.
"Don't get many passengers out here," says the
bus driver. " It's usually only me and the mail."
I grunt and pull my cap over my eyes. I just
want to get this over with. The road is narrow
... and gravel. I feel sick. The old lady better be
there to meet me. She hasn't even got a phone,
so Mum had to write to her. Can you believe that?

At last"we're there. It's misty and near dark. There's no one
to meet me. Maybe she's in the shop, if you can call it that.
I
11.
ll
I wander in. The guy behind the counter stares at me. "Tena -
koe," he says.
"I'm supposed to meet my grandma," I say.
"Ae, ko wai t6na in,goat:_he asks .
~~:-. .:, .
. ,: и -
"What?" i ',,. и ии-- , . ; ... ~.' .. ~_,,,
"What's her name?.'.'.
"I think it's Pourf vy a."
"Ah, ka pai, here's her mail. You can drop it off," he says,
and he hands me the letter Mum sent. Great! No one knows
I'm coming. He draws me a map on the envelope.
It must be my lucky day because when I set out, that mist
turns into rain. I'm wet through, and my white shoes are coated
in mud. This place sucks. I wonder what Mum wrote. The
letter's getting soggy. It will be too wet to read by the time I get
there anyway. I huddle und.er a tree and rip it open.

What rubbish - I always stand up for myself. That's what got
me into this mess. And calling me Tamati. Huh! I'm Tom. I stuff
the letter in my pocket and try to follow what's left of_the map.

The house is just a tin shed up a muddy track. I knock, and the
old girl creaks the door open. "Tena koe," she says, looking at me
funny. "Aue, Tamati, is that you? Welcome home." This isn't my
home. I give her the crumpled letter to stop her hugging me.
"I had to put it in my pocket to keep it dry," I say.
"That right?" she says, and I can tell she's got my number.
I miss my mates. The kids here have no idea about the real
world. It's like another planet. They're not into any of the things
I am. Everyone round here speaks Maori the whole time. It's like
they don't want to speak English. They've got rules for everything,
too. No shoes inside, no sitting on tables, no stepping over people's
legs, pray before eating, pray before sleeping, pray before farting,
probably.
"It's all about respect," says the old girl. "Respect for others and
yourself."
I'm too tired for respect. We get up in the dark and work all day.
I want to ask "Haven't you heard of supermarkets or electricity?" -
but I don't. I think maybe there isn't much money ... or something
like that.
After a month, I'm lean and strong. I'm picking up the language,
too. The kuia reckons she's going to teach me about my whakapapa.
She says she can trace me right back to the first chiefs. Still, I
decide to head for home. My whakapapa can wait - I'm ready.
Things will be different now.
I walk nearly all day and get nowhere. I've got no food and no
money, and my shoes are falling apart. I hear a car coming. It's one
of the guys from the farm, in the old truck. "Hey, Tamati, it's time to
come home," he calls. Oh, ma , I'm actually glad to see him.
I'm quiet for a bit, just thinking.
"Do you want to learn how to drive this thing?" Hemi asks, getting
out of the truck.
"Sure," I say. I'm surprised that he trusts me not to take it.
"It's a bomb," he says. "You'd never make it." Then he gives me
a wink.

My kuia doesn't say anything about where I've
been. She just asks how the woodpile is looking. And
even though I'm tired, I go till after dark, catching up
on the day's work.
My shoes finally die. Hemi gives me gumboots,
but mostly I go barefoot. He's been teaching me
about hunting and the ways of the bush. I've
had heaps of practice driving with him, too. I get
schoolwork in the mail. I can't skip classes with my
kuia for a teacher. There's no point complaining
either. She always says the same thing: "There's some
wood needs splitting if you're bored." I'm staying just
a bit longer. It's like now I'm in Aotearoa and my old
home is New Zealand. Two different countries - and
I'm not sure which one is mine.
A group from town visits our marae. I stand with
my friends, and we give them a haka. We slap our
chests and roll our eyes. We make speeches. I am
descended from a great line of Maori warriors. This is
my mountain, this is my river, this is my land. "Tihei
mauri oral" Behold, there is life. The words roll from
my tongue.
When the greetings are over, we invite them inside.
There's a pile of white shoes at the door. While the old
people are leading the prayers, I overhear one of them
say "Man, this is lame."
"Did you hear that boy?" I ask later. "Talk about
rude."
"Ae ... ," says my kuia, "he reminded me of
someone."
"Who?" I ask.
"I don't know," she laughs. "Must be the shoes."
I smile and look at my feet. I guess I'm more
comfort_able in gumboots now.